With these two words for our text today, Jehovah brought Tabitha and Dorcas back to life.
And as our commenters also pointed out, the resurrection of the dead has to be one of the most amazing miracles
I mentioned in the Bible.
The restoration of a human body or the formation of a new body,
and then the putting of the memories and everything that was that person back into it,
is just an amazing demonstration of the power of chemistry and biology and physics,
what Jehovah understands about life in the universe in a way that just is amazing to us.
Of course, we're amazed by modern technology, maybe smartphones and computers and modern medicine,
but those things pale in comparison when we think about the power and understanding
that it takes for Jehovah to resurrect a human being.
In fact, for many people, the idea of the resurrection of the dead really seems far-fetched.
Maybe the stuff of science fiction, or maybe they may even think it's just a wishful thinking.
So how can we build our faith and confidence in the resurrection and help others to have faith and confidence in this wonderful hope as well?
Well, we'll discuss just a couple of ways.
First, we can reason it out by meditating on Jehovah's creative power and who he is.
Let's consider a couple of examples of men that reasoned that Jehovah must be capable of the resurrection,
even though there hadn't been any resurrections up to that point.
Let's consider Abraham.
If we look at Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 19,
when Jehovah had asked him to offer up Isaac his son as a sacrifice, notice how he reasoned.
Hebrews 11.19, but he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead,
and he did receive him from there in an illustrative way.
Yes, Abraham was able to reason on the fact that Jehovah was the creator
and the fact that he had restored Sarah's reproductive power.
He had resurrected basically her ability to have children.
He concluded that even if he should follow through with sacrificing Isaac,
that Jehovah could and would bring him back from the dead.
Well, that knowledge certainly would have strengthened him
and strengthened his resolve to do something that must have been an extremely difficult thing to ask a father
to put basically his son to death.
But that hope, that strength of resolve that he had was bolstered by the fact that he understood Jehovah could bring him back from the dead.
He reasoned on it.
Or Job, he believed in the resurrection.
Job 14, 14 and 15.
Notice how Job reasons on Jehovah's capability.
If a man dies, can he live again?
I will wait all the days of my compulsory service until my relief comes.
You will call, and I will answer you.
You will long for the work of your hands.
So we keep in mind that Job wrote these words after the death of his attend children.
Now the pain and suffering of having just one child die for parents is a really tragic.
But ten children, that's an unbelievable burden of grief.
But Job reasoned that if he, as their father, missed his ten children so much that he was sure that Jehovah
also longed for them and missed them as well.
Even though he had ten more children later, we can be sure that Job was looking forward to seeing his other dead lost children in the resurrection.
Now that's the first way of just reasoning on Jehovah's capability knowing who he is and understanding that he has the capability to perform resurrection.
The second way is reading accounts of actual resurrection in the Bible.
Elijah resurrected a child.
Elijah resurrected a man even after he was dead.
A man got thrown on his dead bones and got resurrected.
Jesus resurrected the widow of name's son, a gerious daughter, and then also Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
And then we have Jehovah resurrecting Jesus.
And then we have Peter resurrecting Tabitha or Dorcas in our text for today and then Paul resurrecting Young Uticus.
Now if we look at these resurrections, we learn several things from them.
Some children were resurrected, which is certainly comforting for parents who lost children.
Some older ones, Tabitha and Lazarus.
One resurrection was done by dead bones. The prophet even wasn't there, so no one could claim he worked that one out.
So the purpose of the miracles of the resurrection recorded in the Bible was to really build faith that Job and Jesus can and will perform resurrections.
I really like the way the Apostle Paul says in Acts chapter 17 and verse 31,
that Jesus' resurrection provided a guarantee to all men.
It's like recording those resurrections in the Bible, Jehovah is saying,
I guarantee you I can do this. Not only could you reason on it, but I'm demonstrating that I can do this.
See, if death is really like the pause button on a remote,
the resurrection by Jehovah is like him pressing the play button to resume their life.
So we can reason on the fact that Jehovah has the creative ability and the ability like Abraham and Job did to perform resurrections,
and we can read about the actual resurrections that Jehovah performed.
Both of us give us knowledge and faith in the resurrection.
But how does knowledge and faith in the resurrection hope actually help us today?
Well, knowledge gives us power and strength and courage.
To illustrate, one day as a young boy I was out in the field ministry and I was going up to a door,
and this ferocious dog came from out of nowhere just teeth and all coming right at me and I ran from my life.
And I got a little ways from him and I hear this thunk and I realized, ah, that sounds like a chain.
I turned around and sure enough, he's chained right there. He couldn't go any further.
Well, now with the knowledge that he's chained and can't go any further, I could walk so my courageously up to the door and I give my presentation.
See Satan snarls, he barks, he threatens, but in the end Jehovah limits him like a strong chain what he can do.
I mean, even if Satan succeeds in killing us before the end of this system or we die before the end of this old system,
Jehovah gives us the hope of the resurrection.
He lets us know that ferocious death cannot cause us or our loved ones any permanent harm.
Any harm caused by death is temporary. It's like that pause on the remote and Jehovah can easily just press play.
Today's text is only two words, but it has tremendous power.
I want you to try this and see how it makes you feel.
Instead of today's text saying, Tabitha rise, I'd like you to put the name of a person you really want to see back in the resurrection alive once more.
And here Jesus say, your mother's name, rise, your father, rise, your beloved husband or wife, rise.
Our texts for today may only be two words, but what hope and courage they give us.